# Welcome to the contribution documentation

We are happy to have you interested in working with us 
under this project. To contribute to projects under ceol,
we request you to follow certain guidelines to make it 
easier for the maintainers to manage the repository 
contributions.

## Creating a new branch

Once the repository is cloned or forked, we request the
developer to branch out from the `main` branch and create
a new branch with the help of `git checkout -b <branch_name>`.

This is a required step as pushing code to the production 
branch is always unadvisable and most of the cases, the 
`main` branch is protected with branch protection rules to 
explicitly not allow direct commits to the production 
branches.

## Commiting changes

After creating a branch, you are good to make changes to 
the code and improve the issue. After changes are done, 
stage and commit the changes by adding a meaningful commit 
message and 

## Creating pull requests.

We recommend to use pull requests to merge code to the 
`main` branch. Pull Requests is a feature provided by GitHub
where the merging process is shown up in GitHub's UI and 
allows for discussions, linking to issues and review 
suggestions providing a better workflow.

Please link the PR to an issue if this PR is addressed to 
solve one.

Adding relavent description and title will help us to 
decrease common details required.

## After PR

It PR is done, the maintainers review the code and see if
the issue is resolved. If not, the maintainers provide some
extra input or some new idea relavent to the issue to 
improve the current solution. Once this is followed up, you
are good to create your merge request and complete your 
Pull Request successfully under Ceol Community

## Takeaways

These above steps may vary depending up on the organization 
and there can be specific instructions for different 
repositories under ceol community itself. So please review 
the `CONTIRBUTING.md` before you make your fork or clone.

## Questions?

For any doubts, mail to ceoldevs+githubcontrib@gmail.com

